JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
The chief of security for the
TSA is fired
amid outrage over record-long
lines at airports
and generous bonus checks. But
will the shakeup
solve the problem?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also ahead
this Tuesday:
As campaigns pivot to the
general election,
it's all about the dollar signs
-- how candidates
are getting the financial
support they need
for the next phase.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And months after
a standoff
at an Oregon wildlife refuge
became national
news, opposing sides of the
federal land dispute
are coming together to try a
different approach.
DAN NICHOLS, Rancher: We can sit
down and
talk. You still don't agree on
everything.
That's a given. That's people.
But you respect
one another to listen.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All that and
more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Democratic
presidential
hopefuls worked California
today, heading
toward their final primary
showdown on June
7. Bernie Sanders is aiming for
an upset,
and he says he will keep
pressing his case
even if it means what he calls a
messy process
leading up to the convention.
In Anaheim today, Sanders touted
his support
among the nation's youth and
said it's a message
to party leaders.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
We are winning the overwhelming
majority of
young people. What should that
tell us? What
does it tell us? It tells us --
it tells us
and it should tell the country
and certainly
the leadership of the Democratic
Party that
our ideas, our vision is the
future of America.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Sanders camp
also asked
today for a re-canvass of last
week's Kentucky
primary results. Hillary Clinton
finished
just over 1,900 votes ahead in
Kentucky.
She, too, campaigned in
California today,
in the Los Angeles area, and
again trained
her fire on Republican Donald
Trump.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Now he says he wants to roll
back the financial
regulations that we have imposed
on Wall Street
to let them run wild again.
Well, I will tell
you what. You and I together,
we're not going
to let him bankrupt America.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: This was primary
voting day
for the Republicans in
Washington state. But
Trump, the de facto nominee,
turned his attention
to holding fund-raisers,
starting in New Mexico.
We will explore his campaign
funding later
in this program.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In the day's
other news,
President Obama made a show of
support for
dissidents in Vietnam after
formally ending
a U.S. arms embargo. It came on
his second
day in Hanoi.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
There are still areas of
significant concern
in terms of freedom of speech.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It was a
telling moment,
the president meeting with human
rights activists
and criticizing repression, but
with some
chairs unfilled.
BARACK OBAMA: I should note that
there were
several other activists who were
invited who
were prevented from coming for
various reasons.
And I think it's an indication
of the fact
that, although there has been
some modest
progress, there are still folks
who find it
very difficult to assemble and
organize peacefully.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In a later
speech, Mr. Obama
argued greater freedom would
benefit the communist
state. He balanced that with
another show
of solidarity with Vietnam
against China's
aggressive moves in the South
China Sea.
BARACK OBAMA: Nations are
sovereign, and no
matter how large or small a
nation may be,
its sovereignty should be
respected, and its
territory shouldn't be violated.
Big nations
shouldn't bully smaller ones.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Beijing had
issued a relatively
mild statement on Monday. But,
today, its
Foreign Ministry essentially
warned Washington
to back off in diplomatic
language.
HUA CHUNYING, Spokeswoman,
Chinese Ministry
of Foreign Affairs (through
translator): We
believe the countries outside
the region should
respect the efforts by regional
countries
in safeguarding peace and
stability. They
shouldn't threaten other
countries' sovereignty.
HARI SREENIVASAN: From Hanoi,
the president
flew to Ho Chi Minh City, the
former Saigon,
where thousands welcomed him and
his push
for greater economic ties and
trade. The president
spends a final day in Vietnam
tomorrow, then
heads to Japan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mystery swirled
again today
around the fate of an EgyptAir
plane that
crashed last week, killing all
66 people on
board. An Egyptian forensics
expert said the
small size of human remains
found so far points
to an explosion. But the head of
Egypt's forensic
agency called that report
baseless. The aircraft's
black boxes have yet to be
found.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Kurdish-led
forces in Syria
have launched a new offensive
near the Islamic
State group's de facto capital.
Fighting was
reported in villages near the
city of Raqqa.
It could be a prelude to an
assault on the
city itself.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Greece,
officials began
moving migrants today from a
makeshift refugee
camp near the northern border
with Macedonia.
Police managed to get about
1,500 people to
leave the squalid Idomeni site
and move to
other, better organized
facilities. They piled
into buses, and bulldozers
removed what was
left of their tent shelters.
Separately, the International
Organization
for Migration reported fewer
migrants are
dying as they try to reach
Europe. That's
largely because Turkey has
curbed the overall
flow.
And back in this country, the
Justice Department
announced late today that it is
seeking the
death penalty for the killings
at a church
in Charleston, South Carolina.
Dylann Roof
is accused of gunning down nine
black parishioners
last June. He faces 33 federal
charges, including
hate crimes and firearms
offenses.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Comedian Bill
Cosby will
stand trial for allegedly
drugging and sexually
assaulting a woman in 2004. A
judge in Norristown,
Pennsylvania, issued that ruling
today. Cosby
left the hearing without
commenting, but the
prosecutor said statements to
police back
in 2005 established probable
cause.
KEVIN R. STEELE, Montgomery
County, Pennsylvania,
District Attorney: A preliminary
hearing is
a situation where we only have
to show that
a crime is committed and the
defendant is
connected to the crime. We did
that through
the victim's statement and the
defendant's
admissions to much of the crime.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A defense
lawyer said Cosby's
rights have been violated, and
he will appeal
the ruling. More than 50 women
have claimed
he assaulted them over the
years, but this
is the only criminal case so
far.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There's word that
Kenneth Starr
is out as president of Baylor
University in
Texas. He was the independent
counsel who
investigated President Clinton
back in the
1990s. Several broadcast and
online outlets
reported today that Starr has
been fired over
his handling of allegations of
rape leveled
against male athletes at the
school. Baylor
labeled the report rumors.
HARI SREENIVASAN: For the first
time, more
than 40 major health groups are
recommending
weight loss surgery as a routine
option for
treating diabetes. The new
guidelines include
patients who are only mildly
obese. Some 26
million Americans have diabetes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The smoking rate
among American
adults has fallen by the most in
more than
20 years. The Centers for
Disease Control
and Prevention says 15 percent
of adults classified
themselves as smokers in 2015.
That is down
from 17 percent the year before.
It's not
clear if the rise of
e-cigarettes played any
role.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Monsanto today
rejected
a takeover bid by German
chemical giant Bayer.
It was valued at $62 billion.
And Wall Street had its biggest
day since
March. The Dow Jones industrial
average gained
213 points to close at 17706.
The Nasdaq rose
95 points and the S&P 500 added
28.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Still to come on
the "NewsHour":
a shakeup at the TSA, will it
help cut down
long airport lines?; Congress at
odds over
Zika-prevention funding with
mosquito season
fast approaching; a tax on sugar
drinks to
pay for preschool; and much
more.
HARI SREENIVASAN: If you have
traveled on
a plane recently, you have
likely seen something
different at the airport,
extremely long lines.
It's a problem roiling the
government, airlines
and the public.
WOMAN: One on the right, one on
the left,
please.
HARI SREENIVASAN: At airports
across the country,
frustration is boiling over as
security wait
times soar.
MAN: I have missed three flights
because of,
you know, standing in line.
WOMAN: Look at the chaos that
goes on here,
and every checkpoint is like
this.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now the
Transportation Security
Administration has sacked Kelly
Hoggan, the
man in charge of day-to-day
security operations.
He's had a checkered three-year
tenure. In
2015, a Homeland Security report
found TSA
employees failed to find banned
items in more
than 95 percent of covert tests.
And there've been allegations
that Hoggan
played a role in punishing
whistle-blowers.
Then there's $90,000 in bonuses
he received
between 2013 and 2014. That
issue riled the
chair of the House Oversight
Committee at
a recent hearing with TSA head
Peter Neffenger.
REP. JASON CHAFFETZ (R), Utah:
Those bonuses
were given to somebody who
oversees a part
of the operation that was in
total failure.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Dissatisfaction with Hoggan
came to a head last week, when
hundreds of
passengers missed flights at
Chicago's O'Hare
Airport after waiting for hours.
RAHM EMANUEL (D), Mayor of
Chicago: We have
a situation that is totally not
tolerable
for the flying public because
the people responsible
were not doing the jobs that
they needed to
do in funding, but also staffing
positions.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The TSA's
Neffenger says
his agency has struggled with
budget cuts
at a time when more people are
flying. Another
concern? Relatively few people
signed up for
TSA's expedited pre-check
procedure. Congress
has voted an additional $34
million to hire
nearly 800 more screeners, but
Neffenger says
that's not enough.
Today, the union for TSA one
called for an
additional 6,000 personnel.
Meanwhile, with
summer about to begin, the
number of airline
passengers is expected to reach
all-time highs.
We break down the problem now
with Bart Jansen,
transportation reporter for USA
Today.
I flew out of O'Hare last week,
not once,
but twice. What was going on?
And these were
lines that I have never seen
anything this
long.
BART JANSEN, USA Today: They
were having among
the worst experience in the
whole country
last week. They had waits that
stretched to
two, three hours.
And that is why they started to
throw these
extra staffers and canine teams
at that problem.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, so,
what is at
the core of the staffing issue?
What happened
and what is going to fix it?
BART JANSEN: Well, there is a
confluence of
three elements.
One is that overall staffing for
screeners
is down something like 5,800
screeners since
a peak in 2011. So, they have
about 42,500,
but it's much fewer than they
used to. That
I.G. report that found that they
weren't catching
much last summer has prompted
them to check
bags more thoroughly, so they're
taking a
closer look at you as you go
through the lines.
They're going to redo that
undercover investigation
this summer to see if they're
catching more.
Neffenger says they are catching
more. And
we are also seeing more
travelers than ever
before. The Airlines for America
expects 231
million travelers this summer
between June
1 and August 31.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But what's the
ripple effect
on the traveler? When we saw and
heard those
people say how many flights that
they have
missed, cumulatively, this has
got to be a
lot of business concerns for the
airlines,
too.
BART JANSEN: Yes, the concerns
-- it's a headache
for the airlines, because
anybody who misses
a flight, trying to rebook them,
the flights
are going almost 90 percent
full. It's difficult.
American Airlines said that
during a single
week in mid-March, they had
6,800 travelers
miss their flights because of
the security
screening. So, that's why
Airlines for Americas
organized a hashtag and Web site
called I
Hate the Wait for people to
register just
to try to get more public
acknowledgment of
the problem.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes, speaking
of registering,
we were talking off camera about
Global Entry.
I signed up a few years ago. I
was going through
the TSA pre-check lines. How
many other people
are joining me in this, and how
does that
factor into it?
BART JANSEN: Overall, there are
somewhere
a little above 10 million people
in expedited
screening programs so far.
About 2.5 million of them are
specifically
pre-check, which is the TSA
program. If you're
in Global Entry through Customs
and Border
Protection, that gives you the
added value
of, when you're coming back from
overseas,
you get to go through the
customs lines faster,
skip the long lines from the
airlines.
So, they're trying to recruit
more people
into these programs, but so far
they're falling
well below. At 10 million total
members, they're
falling far below their goal of
25 million
in these expedited programs.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And have these
pain points
at the airports increased the
amount of applications?
BART JANSEN: Yes.
They were getting 2,000 to 3,000
applicants
a day at this time last year.
Now they are
up to above 10,000 a day last
week. Neffenger
told us this morning that they
got 15,000
people in one day.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, you met
with Neffenger
this morning before the news
about Hoggan
came out. What was the mood
there?
BART JANSEN: Well, yes, we set
up a -- we
had an editorial board arranged
with him before
this news broke.
He was very forthright, saying
that -- he
didn't say that Hoggan had done
something
wrong. He just said he wanted a
change of
strategy. He wants to try to
make the lines
more efficient, rather than just
going faster
for people. They don't want to
sacrifice security
for moving the lines.
Nevertheless, they think they
can move the
lines more efficiently and get
people through
faster.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Almost every
travel agent
I speak with says it's going to
get worse
through the summer.
BART JANSEN: Yes, the secretary
of homeland
security, Jeh Johnson, has
warned that, even
as they add the screeners that
was mentioned
in your report, that lines are
still expected
to be long. You should plan
ahead.
But they are going to try to
avoid the two-
and three-hour waits that you
have seen in
the last few weeks.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Bart Jansen of
USA Today, thanks so much.
BART JANSEN: Thanks for having
me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to Capitol
Hill and Washington's
efforts to combat the Zika
virus.
Back in February, the White
House put together
a $1.9 billion proposal aimed at
mosquito
control, education about Zika,
plus boosting
research into the virus and a
possible vaccine.
Last week, the
Republican-controlled Senate
moved a compromise measure for
less than two-thirds
that amount over the next year,
$1.1 billion.
But the also-GOP-controlled
House signed off
on a bill for $622 million over
six months.
Joining me now from opposite
sides of this
funding divide are
Representative Rosa DeLauro,
a Democrat from Connecticut, and
Representative
Bob Gibbs, Republican from Ohio.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
Congressman Gibbs, let me begin
with you.
The administration, as we said,
asking for
$1.9 billion. The amount you
favor is about
a third that much. Why not give
the administration
what it's asking for?
REP. BOB GIBBS (R), Ohio: Well,
what the administration
did, that's just ongoing through
the next
-- at least the next two
mosquito seasons.
Our bill, at $600 million-plus,
goes to the
end of this fiscal year,
September 30, and
now we're in the appropriation
process, and
we will look at that, what we
need to do past
September 30 of this year going
into the next
fiscal year and the next
mosquito season next
summer.
So, we will be appropriating
more money, I'm
sure, but it's going to go
through regular
order and the regular
appropriation process.
So, we're on board to make sure
to appropriate
the money as needed to get
through to the
end of this fiscal year.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Congresswoman
DeLauro,
it sounds like this is a down
payment on this
problem. Is that going to be
enough?
REP. ROSA DELAURO (D),
Connecticut: Listen,
no, the fact is, is the Zika
virus is a public
health emergency. It is a
crisis.
It is going to -- the mosquitoes
that carry
the virus will hit the mainland
United States
within the next few weeks. We
are putting
American women at risk, pregnant
women who
are fearful that their babies
will be born
with birth defects.
And we have a medical community
that is telling
women that maybe they shouldn't
get pregnant.
That is not message to the
American people.
The fact of the matter is, is
that the $622
million is a third of what's
been asked for.
You know, in this body, when we
deal with
appropriations for defense or
going to war,
my Republican colleagues will
say, let us
get the word from the generals,
from those
who are in the field, the
experts. They can
tell us how much money they
need. And they
can tell us how many troops we
need.
Well, we do have experts in this
war on the
mosquitoes. We have the Centers
for Disease
Control. We have the National
Institutes of
Health.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
REP. ROSA DELAURO: We have the
scientific
community, all of whom said, we
need $1.9
billion. And they have
documented every cent
of that as to where it is going.
We need to
listen to these generals in the
field on this
war on the mosquitoes and keep
the American
public safe and American women
safe.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Congressman
Gibbs, it's not
just Democrats who are saying
that this is
not enough money. One of your
fellow Republicans
in the Senate, Marco Rubio of
Florida, said
today that this is not enough
money, the $622
million.
He went on to say that he fears
that the opportunity
to get ahead of this crisis is
slipping away.
What do you say to him?
REP. BOB GIBBS: Well, I think
we're going
through the appropriation
process, and if
it's not enough money, we will
make -- we
will do the appropriation bills
here in the
next few weeks, and we will
appropriate more
money when we go through and do
our due diligence.
But another issue that I need on
talk about
is my bill, 897, deals with how
we control
mosquitoes or kill the larvae in
mosquitoes
here before they hatch. And
that's a bill
I had on the floor today, passed
with strong
bipartisan support. And it gives
our states
and our local communities the
resources, the
ability not to have that
additional red tape
and bureaucracy and don't waste
resources
to do their control efforts, to
start doing
the preventative programs at
onset, at the
beginning of the mosquito
season.
And that's really important. And
a lot of
people on the other side of the
aisle are
not supportive of this. And it's
really something
that needs to be done, so our
local communities,
our mosquito control districts
have every
tool in the toolbox to start the
preventative
programs to stop the mosquitoes
from growing
in population and possibly
reaching epidemic
proportions of the Zika virus or
even the
West Nile virus.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well,
Congresswoman DeLauro,
my understanding is, this would
-- this legislation
that the congressman is
referring to would
loosen the restrictions on the
use of pesticides.
Is that at least a partial step
in the right
direction?
REP. ROSA DELAURO: Let me make
two -- a quick
point to you.
We running out of time. And it
was Anthony
Fauci at the NIH, at the Center
for Infectious
Diseases, who said that if we
wait for the
appropriations process, we are
not going to
be able to do what we need to do
to get ahead
of this virus.
On the bill that my colleague
has introduced,
let me be clear, with all due
respect to my
colleague, it is a phony. It is
a sham. It
is nothing but trying to weaken
the environmental
regulations. It exempts, a broad
exemption,
of toxic pesticides from the
Clean Water Act.
This bill was introduced two or
three years
ago, has nothing to do with
Zika. Our states
and our municipalities today
have the authority
in which to be able to control
the mosquito
population and to -- and to deal
with it.
This will only pollute our
rivers and contaminate
our water. This bill that was
passed today
has nothing seriously to do with
controlling
the Zika virus. It's been
rebranded.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Congressman
Gibbs, what about
that?
REP. BOB GIBBS: Well, even the
American Mosquito
Control Association has said
that we have
had communities that are slow to
get the preventative
mosquito control programs up and
going because
of this court case that created
this problem
a few years ago.
And I will just -- and the EPA
has full control
over the current -- under
current law, the
FIFRA, to regulate these
pesticides. And if
they -- and if -- these
pesticides have -- restrictions
have to be applied by a
certified applicator,
who go through rigorous testing
and certification
by the EPA, and the EPA can step
in. They
have to keep all kinds of
records.
And we saw -- we have testimony
from mosquito
control entities throughout the
country that
said that they have added the
cost to the
paperwork. And it also opens
them up to litigation,
and if they are in violation of
the paperwork
under the Clean Water Act, they
can have fines
up to $37,000 a day.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Congress...
REP. ROSA DELAURO: Really,
again, very, very,
very quickly, we are -- what's
happened is
that the emergency preparedness
money has
been taken away from localities
because the
CDC has had to shift money,
because this Congress,
this Republican Congress, will
not appropriate
the $1.9 billion, which makes it
slow for
them to deal with surveillance.
The fact is, is that, under
emergency circumstances,
our states and our
municipalities have the
authority to deal with
controlling the mosquito
population. This bill will do
nothing to address
that issue.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Congressman
Gibbs, I want to
come back to the...
REP. BOB GIBBS: When it reaches
epidemic proportions,
then they can do emergency
measures, and they
don't have to get any permits.
And that's
why they need to start a
preventative program
like they normally would.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Congressman
Gibbs, I want to
ask you -- what this says,
though, to women
who live in areas that may be
affected by
this mosquito carrying the Zika
virus.
What do you say to women who are
worried,
who are concerned that the
mosquitoes are
coming with the warmer weather?
REP. BOB GIBBS: Well, it's
obvious that we
have got to do everything we
can.
And I think the money that we
voted last week
in the House to put -- start the
process moving
forward, and I'm sure we will
appropriate
more money as soon as we learn
it's necessary.
We don't want to create just a
slush fund
out there with no
accountability. So, we're
doing our due diligence.
The president's request goes
out, has no time
frame. It just goes on. And so
we have got
this set until September 30. And
before September
30, we can appropriate more
money. So, it
gets the ball rolling, and my
bill gets the
ball rolling so that our locals
can start
their preventative mosquito
control programs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just 15 seconds.
REP. ROSA DELAURO: What we are
saying to women,
we're saying to women that you
are at risk,
without trying to deal with this
with the
immediacy that the scientific
community has
told us about. This is
immediate. It's now
in a few weeks. That means this
summer.
Women are going to be afraid to
go out on
their patio. They're going to be
afraid to
go to a barbecue. They're going
to be afraid
to take their kids to little
league because
it can put their ability to have
children,
or, if they're carrying
children, they would
be in jeopardy. This puts
American women at
risk, and this Congress is doing
nothing but
stalling.
This Republican Congress has
said no five
times to $1.9 billion, which is
well-documented.
It's better documented than the
war in Iraq
was.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We are going to
have to leave
it there.
Congresswoman DeLauro,
Congressman Gibbs,
we thank you both very much.
REP. ROSA DELAURO: Thank you.
REP. BOB GIBBS: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
first for presidential
candidate Donald Trump, hosting
a fund-raiser;
balancing the interests of
ranchers and conservationists
in the American West; and a
woman's life entwined
with science and nature.
But first: The city of
Philadelphia is considering
a new, but controversial way of
funding early
education.
Here's my report, part of our
weekly series
on education that airs on
Tuesday nights called
Making the Grade.
In Philadelphia, buying soda has
bubbled into
a political controversy. To make
pre-kindergarten
available to all 3- and
4-year-olds, Philadelphia's
mayor has proposed a soda tax
that requires
beverage distributors to pay 3
cents for every
ounce of sugary drink sold in
the city.
NARRATOR: Philadelphia's chance
to help lift
our children with citywide pre-K
is now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The mayor
hopes to raise
$95 million every year with the
new tax. But
unlike campaigns in other
cities, Philadelphia's
soda tax is not being promoted
as a health
issue.
JIM KENNEY (D), Mayor of
Philadelphia: The
ancillary benefit to this will
be healthy
choices, but it's not the
purpose. The purpose
of imposing this
3-cents-an-ounce sugar-sweetened
beverage tax is to allow people
to get their
kids educated and move them out
of poverty
into taxpaying citizens.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Mayor Jim
Kenney argues
beverage companies make big
money from sugary
drinks sold in low-income
neighborhoods, places
where pre-kindergarten can make
a difference.
JIM KENNEY: Unless a child is
reading at grade
level by third grade, the odds
are by seventh
and eighth grade, they will be
acting up because
they can't read. Ninth and 10th
grade, they're
dropping out because they're
embarrassed they
can't read.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But the
high-calorie tax
has become a highly charged
debate.
NARRATOR: When those pennies
start adding
up, your grocery budget is going
to go...
HARI SREENIVASAN: Much of the
opposition is
funded by the American Beverage
Association,
but some is from city grocers
who rely on
sodas sales.
Dany Vinas owns a grocery store
in north Philadelphia.
He says 25 percent of his
business is selling
sugary drinks.
DANY VINAS, Grocery Store Owner:
They're going
to tax the big company. They're
going to pass
it onto us, and who is going to
be paying?
The consumer. At the very end,
whoever buys
it to consume, that's who is
going to pay.
KEVIN EADS, Parent: You like
this juice? All
right, get it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Kevin Eads and
his family
shop at Vinas' store every day.
KEVIN EADS: I drink soda and
juice all day.
I love it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Eads says if
the cost is
passed on to the consumer, he
will have trouble
paying for the sugar-based juice
his children
drink.
KEVIN EADS: It's not really
going to be fair
on them, because I'm going to be
-- I'm not
going to have the money to buy
it. I barely
have enough to get what I'm
getting. I'm going
to have to choose between either
getting food
or getting juice, you know, and
that's not
right.
DANY VINAS: How can you tell a
3-year-old
kid drink water, drink diet
soda, when they
know that those sweet drinks is
what they
want? They're going to say no,
no, no. And
the parent will have to buy it.
CARLA HURLEY, Parent: Fold it if
you need
to.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Carla Hurley
and her husband,
Cameron, who grew up in North
Philadelphia,
support the soda tax.
CARLA HURLEY: It really makes
sense to me
that, OK, sugary drinks, it's
not something
that we need. It's something
that we want.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Their
4-year-old son, Chance,
would qualify for the free
pre-kindergarten
the tax would provide.
Currently, the Hurleys
pay $1,000 a month.
CARLA HURLEY: My job pretty much
pays for
child care, but, at this point,
developmentally,
they would benefit more from
going than from
staying home with me.
CAMERON HURLEY, Parent: The
money that she
brings in, the net, is really
close per pay
to the money that goes out for
day care. It's
really close.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The couple has
moved in
with Carla's mother until they
can afford
to buy a House.
CARLA HURLEY: That's a mortgage
payment for
us, so that would be amazing to
at least take
some of that burden off us from
paying for
two kids for child care. It
would be great.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The mayor says
the soda
tax would expand high-quality
preschools,
like the Parent Infant Center in
West Philadelphia,
where the wait-list is
substantial.
DEB GREEN, Executive Director,
Parent Infant
Center: This is part of an
advocacy effort
to get the children to deliver
messages to
members of City Council to
understand the
importance of the sugar tax
right now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Executive
director Deb Green
shows drawings the students
created in support
of the tax, describing what they
liked most
about pre-kindergarten.
DEB GREEN: This one says,
"Because the playground
is so much fun to play on." This
child loves
the blocks.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The center
serves both low-income
families who receive state
subsidies and full-paying
families.
DEB GREEN: I think we're
learning the importance
of children being in classrooms
with children
of other races. When they learn
it at 3, 4,
and 5, they no longer have bias,
stereotypes,
prejudice.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Currently, 150
families
are waiting for full-pay slots
and 70 families
are waiting for subsidized
slots.
Store owner Vinas supports
funding pre-kindergarten,
but says the city should find
another way
to pay for it. Vinas worries the
added cost,
which he says could double the
price of some
beverages, will drive his
customers outside
the city to buy tax-free soda.
DANY VINAS: Most of the people,
they're going
to just drive away, and drive 10
minutes,
and do the whole shopping at
another supermarket
out of the county of
Philadelphia.
JIM KENNEY: We're not taxing
thirst. It's
kind of comical, their argument
that this
product is so critical to your
life and your
happiness, that you're going to
go and stock
up your whole car with it. It's
just -- it's
kind of laughable.
DAVID DAY, Day's Beverages: When
the next
trailer comes in, make sure it's
all orange.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But David Day
of Day's Beverages
an independent soft drink
company on the border
of Philadelphia, believes the
tax has bigger
implications than any losses he
may incur.
For him, it's an issue of
fairness.
DAVID DAY: Many products have
sugar. Cakes,
all your candy bars have sugar.
Your cereal
has sugar. If you're going to do
it, let's
do everything that has sugar
will be taxed,
proportionately. Let's be fair.
You just cannot
pick on soft drinks.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The City
Council is expected
to vote on the mayor's proposal
soon.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We turn now to
the race for
the White House and zero in for
a moment on
the money chase.
One of Donald Trump's main
pitches to GOP
primary voters was that, by
funding his own
campaign, he wasn't beholden to
big donors.
But, tonight, the presumptive
Republican nominee
holds his first official
fund-raiser in Albuquerque,
New Mexico.
Here to discuss the shift and
what Trump's
goals are for the rest of the
campaign is
Matea Gold. She covers money in
politics for
The Washington Post.
Matea, welcome back to the
program.
So, as we just said, Donald
Trump holding
his first fund-raiser tonight,
well behind
the other candidates, certainly
Hillary Clinton. How much of a
difference
does that make?
MATEA GOLD, The Washington Post:
Well, Trump
has set a very ambitious goal
for his joint
fund-raising operation with the
Republican
National Committee.
That's $1 billion by Election
Day, which comes
out to about $250 million a
month for the
next five months. So, he has a
lot of work
to do. He doesn't have a formal
fund-raising
structure. So, unlike Hillary
Clinton, who
has a very robust national
network of donors,
he is just now in the process of
identifying
fund-raisers throughout the
country, bringing
people on board to help bring in
the big dollars
to really finance that fall
get-out-the-vote
effort that will be so critical.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, again, as we
have said,
Matea, Donald Trump has been
saying for months
that big donors are bad in
politics. He has
been critical of other
candidates and their
big donors.
How does his campaign explain
the shift now?
MATEA GOLD: Well, they are, I
think, struggling
to try to frame how this pivot
is really working.
On the one hand, Trump and his
top aides are
maintaining that he's still
really just raising
money for the party, when, in
fact, the joint
fund-raising agreement that he
has with the
RNC does divert a substantial
amount of money
directly into his campaign. The
first $5,400
of any donation that a
contributor makes goes
directly to Trump for President.
And he's trying to maintain,
though, that
the bulk of this money will go
to finance
the party's get-out-the-vote
effort and also
that, even if donors do give
small amounts
of money, he is worth $10
billion, and he
cannot be bought by wealthy
contributors,
the way he maintained other
politicians can.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, do we know
how much he's
really going to need? You said
they're saying
$1 billion, but he has certainly
got by on
a lot less than that during the
primary season.
He got so much news coverage, he
didn't need
the kind of traditional TV
advertising other
candidates do. So, what do the
people you
talk to think he's going to
need?
MATEA GOLD: Well, I think most
veteran party
fund-raisers privately agree $1
billion is
incredibly ambitious and
difficult to pull
off.
And, as you point out, he might
not need that
much. We haven't seen him need
to put the
kind of millions of dollars into
television
advertising that the other
candidates have
had to do. He will, however,
need a really
robust on-the-ground field
effort to identify
voters and turn them out to the
polls.
That's something the party's
going to take
the lead on, but that's
something they need
substantial resources to
finance.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, we also
know, Matea, there
have been a number of stories
about big Republican
-- wealthy Republican donors
either being
reluctant or just saying flat
out they're
unwilling to give Donald Trump
money. Where
does that stand? I know you did
some reporting
on that today.
MATEA GOLD: Well, what's really
remarkable
is, we're seeing a coalescing of
the top donor
and fund-raising class in the
party coming
around Trump.
People who were ardent backers
of Jeb Bush,
for example, who was really
pounded by Trump
in the primaries, major backers
of Wisconsin
Governor Scott Walker and other
candidates
have really come to the
conclusion that between
the choice of Trump and likely
Democratic
front-runner Hillary Clinton in
the fall,
they're going to put their
investment with
Trump.
And so I think it's been
incredibly striking
to see how many of them have
signed up to
help on this effort.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, do you think,
between now
and Election Day, we are going
to see a steady
stream of fund-raisers that
Donald Trump is
going to have to be taking part
in?
MATEA GOLD: Well, it remains to
be seen how
many he will be willing to take
part in. He's
doing one tonight in
Albuquerque, and another
really high-dollar event in Los
Angeles later
this week that is set to bring
in as much
as $5 million.
But, you know, at this time four
years ago,
Governor Romney was doing 50
events over the
summer. That's a big chunk of
your schedule
to take out for fund-raisers,
not something
that Donald Trump necessarily
has interest
in doing. But I think a lot of
fund-raisers
are telling him he's going to
have to step
up to the plate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Matea Gold,
watching this every
day for The Washington Post, we
thank you.
MATEA GOLD: My pleasure.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A small
community in Southeast
Oregon was thrown into the
national spotlight
earlier this year when several
dozen armed
occupiers took control of the
Malheur National
Wildlife Refuge, leading to a
month-long standoff
with law enforcement.
They were protesting federal
government control
of local lands, a longstanding
grievance in
the American West. But some
local residents
say they were surprised the
conflict took
place there, because they have
been working
together to resolve land
management disputes.
Special correspondent Cat Wise
reports.
CAT WISE: The Malheur National
Wildlife Refuge
has reopened to the public, but
the headquarters
complex remains closed, for now.
CHAD KARGES, Malheur National
Wildlife Refuge:
Once the repairs are done, and
we're back
in the buildings and operational
again in
full, then we will open up the
headquarters.
CAT WISE: Refuge manager Chad
Karges says
that while cleanup efforts from
the occupation
are ongoing, everyone's
attention is now refocused
on the most important visitors
here, birds.
CHAD KARGES: Malheur Refuge is
about migratory
birds, and so this basin is one
of the most
important spring migratory
stopover points
for migratory birds in the
Western U.S. The
basin serves as kind of like an
international
airport. It's a hub.
CAT WISE: More than 320 species
are found
here, including sandhill cranes,
Ross's geese,
long-billed curlews, and
red-winged blackbirds.
But the birds don't just hang
out on the refuge.
They land wherever they want.
And at this time of year, that's
often on
local private ranchland wet with
spring runoff.
It's wonderful habitat for birds
and for cows.
Cows outnumber people by 14 to
one in Harney
County. There's a long, proud
tradition of
ranching here, and cattle and
haying are the
main drivers of the local
economy.
Cows and birds seem to get along
quite well
on private ranches, and many in
the community
appreciate the tourism dollars
that birders
bring in. But it's when those
cattle have
to graze on public,
government-owned land,
which makes up 75 percent of the
county, that
conflicts between ranchers, and
environmental
groups, and the federal
government become
evident.
So, about 10 years ago, refuge
manager Karges
and a small group in this
community decided
to try a fairly novel approach
to resolving
those conflicts, face-to-face
conversations.
And those conversations have led
to this,
the High Desert Partnership, a
nonprofit that
was formed with one goal,
collaboration.
MAN: Can you add to the
committee, or does
it need to be a standing
committee?
MAN: I would just recommend that
it is a standing
group.
CAT WISE: Participants at this
recent meeting,
held at the historic Hotel
Diamond, included
ranchers, federal and local
government employees,
scientists, and conservation
advocates, a
diverse group you might not
expect would share
so many laughs.
Brenda Smith is the group's
director.
BRENDA SMITH, Director, High
Desert Partnership:
We wanted to go beyond
litigation when land
issues were being challenged, I
guess. If
we could bring people together,
maybe those
things wouldn't happen, and that
is where
we have seen our success.
CAT WISE: The group has made
progress in other
areas, too, like reducing the
number of invasive
carp that are hurting the
ecosystem in Malheur
Lake on the refuge, and
improving flood irrigation
systems on private ranches that
benefit both
cattle and the birds.
But how to manage cattle on
federal lands,
especially on the refuge, is an
issue they
are still sorting out.
Dan Nichols is a local rancher
and an elected
county commissioner. He's a firm
believer
in the partnership, but he says
it's not always
easy to find common ground, when
ranchers
feel their way of life is
threatened.
DAN NICHOLS, Rancher: There
needs to be some
change in the way the federal
lands are managed.
The West is continuously
bombarded by threats
of monuments, national parks,
further restrictions
on grazing. The lockup of
millions of acres
over a succession of time is
causing a demise,
to a certain degree, in the
rural communities.
CAT WISE: Nichols says working
through those
tough issues has been a lot
easier with the
partnership in place.
DAN NICHOLS: We can sit down and
talk. You
still don't agree on everything.
That's a
given. That's people. But you
respect one
another to listen, and to look
at the world
through their lens a little bit.
And others
are starting to see, because
they have been
here enough, that cattle aren't
all bad.
CAT WISE: Malheur is one of a
small number
of federal wildlife refuges
around the country
that allow limited grazing and
haying, largely
to help control plant growth and
invasive
species during times of year
when cattle won't
impact the birds too much.
But when a long-term plan was
being developed
for the refuge, some hoped to
get cattle off
the land entirely.
BOB SALLINGER, Portland Audubon
Society: We
think public lands need to be
managed for
their ecological value. That
needs to be the
top priority. And, too often,
those ecological
values have been sacrificed for
cattle grazing.
CAT WISE: Bob Sallinger is the
conservation
director at the Portland Audubon
Society.
He says cattle cause a number of
ecological
problems, including trampling
vegetation and
nests, but after many, many
discussions with
the group, he decided he could
live with some
cattle on the refuge.
BOB SALLINGER: As we talked, we
recognized
that we did have some common
ground on some
of the biggest issues,
particularly carp and
flood irrigation, that we could
agree to move
forward on those issues, and
also that there
needed to be better science in
terms of understanding
the role that cattle are playing
in this ecosystem.
CAT WISE: In fact, better
science has become
the shared goal of the various
high desert
partners. And they have put
their trust in
this group.
Esther Lev, Dustin Johnson, and
Jess Wenick
are scientists with different
backgrounds,
but the three are collaborating
on projects
around the refuge aimed at
understanding how
vegetation responds over time to
different
management tools, like flooding
and grazing,
but what they aren't doing, they
say, is taking
sides.
ESTHER LEV, The Wetlands
Conservancy: We're
not trying to dispute this or
agree to this.
We really trying to say, what
goes on here?
What is the ideal plant
communities that we
want and water regimes that are
going to give
the birds the habitat they need?
DUSTIN JOHNSON, Oregon State
University Extension
Service: We're really only two
years really
into the sampling which is being
done. We're
just now beginning to understand
some of these
changes that we're seeing when
we do certain
things.
JESS WENICK, U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service:
The beautiful thing that I see
in this collaborative
effort is the value of the
shared science,
because, too often, politics
removes some
of the tools from the toolbox
that you are
able to use on a site like this
to meet your
objectives.
CAT WISE: The data from their
experiments
will ultimately help refuge
managers determine
how many cattle are allowed to
graze from
year to year. But not everyone
in the larger
community is supportive of the
High Desert
Partnership.
ERIN MAUPIN, Rancher: So, just
hold it and
be careful. She will be butt it.
CAT WISE: Erin Maupin and her
husband, Jeff,
own a 1,700-acre ranch and 350
cattle. They,
like so many ranchers in this
area, need much
more land than they own to feed
those cattle.
But they say they feel under
constant threat
that their government permits to
graze on
public lands will be taken away
to preserve
habitat for wildlife.
Maupin says she participated in
early High
Desert Partnership meetings, but
stopped going
after she felt like her views
weren't getting
traction.
ERIN MAUPIN: I thought, if we
could just get
the truth out there, that we're
not here raping
and pillaging the land, that
environmental
groups would recognize our
grazing rights.
I think if people would listen
to us more
in the collaboration, instead of
we're the
only ones that have anything to
give, and
so we're constantly giving, and
giving, and
giving.
CAT WISE: But those who are
committed to the
collaborative process say the
recent occupation
has strengthened their cause.
Partnership director Brenda
Smith:
BRENDA SMITH: I think it might
actually encourage
people that, yes, this is
something that's
important, and that we really
need to work
hard at it.
CAT WISE: The group recently
received a $6
million grant from a state
agency for wetlands
habitat projects on and off the
refuge, and
they are now collaborating about
how to spend
that money.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Cat
Wise in Harney
County, Oregon.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next: the latest
addition to
our "NewsHour" Bookshelf.
"Lab Girl" by geobiologist Hope
Jahren is
both an investigation of the
thrilling lives
of plants and a deeply personal
memoir.
Jeffrey Brown has that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Hope Jahren,
welcome to you.
HOPE JAHREN, Author, "Lab Girl":
Thank you.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, part memoir,
part science.
What were you after, or are they
both the
same to you?
HOPE JAHREN: Yes.
Well, I wanted to write a book.
And in my
field, that's what you do. You
get your degree,
and you write a lot of papers,
and you get
a broad view of the field, and
you write a
textbook, which changes the
way...
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes, for other
scientists.
HOPE JAHREN: Yes, which changes
the way it's
taught, and the field goes
forward.
When I sat down to do that, I
couldn't keep
my own story out of it. When I
really tried
to explain what we had
accomplished, I needed
to talk about how we
accomplished it. And
then I needed to talk about all
the late nights
and special people and strange
experiences
that went into that.
I couldn't keep the two
separate. So now you
have got a book where it's all
entwined.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, it begins for
your first
discovering or at least seeing
science in
your father's lab.
HOPE JAHREN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: He taught science
at community
college, right?
HOPE JAHREN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: What did you see?
HOPE JAHREN: My very earliest
memories as
a small child were in the
laboratory, what
it smelled like, what the cement
felt like,
the hard angles of it, the shiny
objects,
and the interesting things, and
how they could
all be used for something. And
they were toys,
but they weren't toys. They were
serious things.
JEFFREY BROWN: But you even
write, "There's
nothing in the world more
perfect than a slide
rule."
HOPE JAHREN: Yes. Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's a serious
thing. Right?
HOPE JAHREN: Yes, exactly. It's
a beautiful
thing that we don't use anymore,
unfortunately.
But we broke things, and then we
fixed them.
You could have fund breaking
them. You could
have fun fixing them. There was
nowhere better.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's the natural
world, though,
the world of plant life, that
ultimately grabbed
you.
HOPE JAHREN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Why?
HOPE JAHREN: Oh, it's the
biggest question
there is. What does it mean to
be alive on
the planet?
And answering that for you and
me is one thing,
but answering it for an organism
that is so
terribly different than we are
and so terribly
much more successful and
long-lived and spectacular,
that we can't even interview,
the way you
can ask me a question. I have to
pull it out
of its environment and put it in
the lab and
try to grow it and control it
and get -- and
work so hard to just get a
small, small window
into something so different.
JEFFREY BROWN: You know, I was
thinking, because
so much of your book is about
moving through
the world and seeing green,
right?
HOPE JAHREN: Yes, yes, yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Seeing colors
around us. And
yet, most of us -- maybe I
should speak for
myself -- we don't see it every
day.
HOPE JAHREN: Yes. Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's right there,
but we don't
see it.
HOPE JAHREN: But you used to.
You got away
from that.
I think one -- another thing I
say in the
book is that everybody has a
tree they remember
from being a child. It's very
common I meet
somebody who remembers looking
carefully at
a tree, and being near it, and
what it meant
to them, et cetera.
And I think one of the only
interesting things
about me is that I never lost
that. I never
moved away from it.
JEFFREY BROWN: One of the
interesting things
about the way you write the
book, going back
and forth between yourself and
the plant world,
is the similarities, but also,
as you were
saying just before, the great
differences
between us, right?
HOPE JAHREN: Yes, yes. It's
juxtaposed.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
HOPE JAHREN: I talk a little bit
about how
a plant establishes itself, and
the struggles
it undergoes.
And I talk a little bit about
how I established
myself, and the good parts and
the bad parts
and the tough parts. And then I
let the reader
say to themselves, did I see any
similar threads?
Did I see any differences?
And it's turned out to be a
wonderful thing.
To see people read it has been
wonderful.
JEFFREY BROWN: Some of the tough
parts, personal
parts about your struggles with
depression,
bipolar disorder.
HOPE JAHREN: Yes. Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: You had to work
hard to keep
this under management, right?
HOPE JAHREN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: But it affected
your life tremendously.
HOPE JAHREN: Yes, yes.
I spent 10 years being very sick
and hiding
it. I spent 10 years doing the
very hard work
of getting well. And I had not
seen that written
in a book the way it had been a
real thing
for me for very important parts
of my life.
And so I thought, maybe I can do
this. Maybe
I can make a book that tackles
this in a way
it hasn't been done before, and
I did my best.
JEFFREY BROWN: And then, of
course, for all
the wonder of scientific
discovery and research,
there's the nuts and bolts of,
you know, actually
booing a worker, right?
HOPE JAHREN: Absolutely.
JEFFREY BROWN: Of having to get
funding, of
having to get positions to teach
and do your
research.
HOPE JAHREN: Absolutely. It's
work.
I mean, it's hard work that
doesn't usually
pay off. It's hard, and it might
not come
to anything, and the only
salvation you have
is the joy you get from the
moment, to the
joy that you get from watching
the samples
accumulate right next to you.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's called "Lab
Girl."
HOPE JAHREN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: You are a woman
in science.
Right? You write about this, all
the discussion
about why there aren't more
women. Is it sexism
at an individual level, at a
cultural level?
What do you see going on?
HOPE JAHREN: Well, I think being
a scientist
is a position of respect and
power and access,
and it's a privileged position
in society.
And I think there are
fundamental mechanisms
that keep men and women from
achieving the
same level of power and access
and privilege
in society.
And so I think these things
apply to science,
in the same way that they apply
in who's in
Congress and who is running the
world in many
other ways.
JEFFREY BROWN: But give me an
example. Where
does it happen? Because, you
know, this discussion
is always, what happens to young
girls who
start out interested and somehow
don't make
the same progress, or don't
achieve the same
positions?
HOPE JAHREN: One thing that was
very important
to me was that I felt
comfortable in the lab
from being very, very small.
I knew that that's where I
belonged, and I
could fix things and move
things. And no matter
how many classrooms I went into
where I was
the only girl in the physics
class or whatever,
I never questioned the fact that
I didn't
belong there. I knew that as
well as I knew
my own name, that this was the
place I was
comfortable, and this is the
place where I
could do things.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
book is "Lab
Girl."
Hope Jahren, thank you so much.
HOPE JAHREN: You're welcome.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Finally, a
special public
media investigation casts new
scrutiny on
the disaster recovery system.
That's the subject of tonight's
"Frontline"
called "The Business of
Disaster." It looks
at how billions of dollars were
spent after
Superstorm Sandy, including the
profits insurers
make through the National Flood
Insurance
Program, and through special
housing aid Congress
gives to local governments.
The project was done in
conjunction with NPR,
which is also airing its report
on "All Things
Considered" today.
Here's an excerpt from
"Frontline" about one
of the housing programs in New
York with NPR
reporter Laura Sullivan.
LAURA SULLIVAN, National Public
Radio: The
job of rebuilding these homes in
New York
City, it's the responsibility of
a special
housing program called Build It
Back.
NARRATOR: We have created a
powerful program.
LAURA SULLIVAN: The program got
$1.7 billion
from Washington.
NARRATOR: And we have secured
federal aid
money. The name of the program
is NYC Build
It Back, and it's here to make
your home safer,
our community stronger.
LAURA SULLIVAN: One family that
was told they'd
be among the first to be helped
by Build It
Back was Diane and Nick
Camerada, a couple
the president had comforted.
DIANE CAMERADA, Flood Victim:
Don't forget
about us.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
That's my point. That's why I
came here.
(LAUGHTER)
LAURA SULLIVAN: But three years
later, they
were still living with a fish
tank filled
with Sandy storm water.
DIANE CAMERADA: This is our fish
tank.
LAURA SULLIVAN: Is this the
water from the
tidal surge?
DIANE CAMERADA: Yes.
LAURA SULLIVAN: This is tidal
surge water?
DIANE CAMERADA: Tidal surge,
plus the fish
tank water. I mean, everything
must have intermingled,
because the water actually went
up to the
top step before my second floor.
LAURA SULLIVAN: The water came
all the way
out here? This whole floor was
underwater?
DIANE CAMERADA: Underwater.
LAURA SULLIVAN: This used to be
your entryway?
The Cameradas were still waiting
to get their
first floor fixed up and their
house elevated.
DIANE CAMERADA: Television, our
couch, our
living area.
LAURA SULLIVAN: Like many
homeowners, they
gambled and didn't have flood
insurance. They
were now counting on help from
Build It Back.
DIANE CAMERADA: Do you know I
had to itemize
every single thing that I lost?
LAURA SULLIVAN: Diane showed me
what that
process has been like.
DIANE CAMERADA: I know I filled
this same
application out three times.
LAURA SULLIVAN: No, this same
application,
this pile?
DIANE CAMERADA: Yes.
LAURA SULLIVAN: How do you keep
all of this
straight?
DIANE CAMERADA: I have no choice
but to keep
it straight. I have to know
where everything
is so when somebody says, oh,
you didn't fill
this out, or you didn't fill
that out, here
it is, I filled it out. I filled
it out three,
four times.
LAURA SULLIVAN: It wasn't just
lost paperwork.
It was also hard to get a
straight answer.
DIANE CAMERADA: You would talk
to one person
and then if you would talk to
another person,
you would get a totally
different story. So
who do you believe?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tune in for
"Frontline"'s
"Business of Disasters" later
tonight on your
local PBS station.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online: We
asked experts if the new
overtime regulations
announced last week will help or
hurt the
economy. As you can imagine, we
got a wide
range of responses. You can read
all of them
on our Making Sense page.
That's on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
Later tonight on PBS: North
Carolina's move
to legislate who uses which
bathroom is just
the tip of the iceberg. "Point
Taken" debates
the state of gender and
transgender rights
in America.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And on
"Charlie Rose": the
cast of "A Streetcar Named
Desire," Gillian
Anderson, Ben Foster, and
Vanessa Kirby.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
Tomorrow, I sit down with the
head of Veterans
Affairs to ask how, after
millions of dollars
of fixes, problems persist for
delivering
care. If you're a veteran, we'd
like to hear
about your experience. Share
your responses
on social media using #AsktheVA,
and we might
incorporate them in tomorrow's
interview.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.